In the last few videos,
I defined the discriminator and generator classes.
The discriminator takes only one parameter as input,
a conv-dim, and the generator only takes a z-size and a conv-dim.
So, here I'm just defining this complete model by defining two parameters,
a conv-dim which by default is 32,
but I want to explicitly specify it here,
and a z-size of 100.
So, this defines the input to our generator a line vector size,
and this confidence defines the depth of
our convolutional layers in each of these models.
So, in passing these in and printing out are instantiated discriminator D and
generator G. Here's a good place for you
to check that you're applying batch norm layers appropriately.
So, for our discriminator,
we're applying batch norm to our second third convolutional layers.
We can also see that we're using a kernel size of four,
a stride of two, and a padding of one to create a strided convolutions.
You can also check that your linear layer
is outputting the number of values that you want.
In this case, a single value that indicates whether an image is real or fake.
Then I can check the generator for the same thing,
I can look at my linear layer,
which takes in z-size and outputs a number of features,
then I can see that I'm adding batch norm to
the first two transpose convolutional layers,
and our last transpose convolutional layer will produce an image with a depth of three.
So, this is all looking good,
and then I can prepare to train these models.
The training will look really similar to what we did for our M-list gain,
but since this is a more complex model,
I'll actually want to train on GPU to speed up my training time.
So, in this cell and checking if GPU is available,
and if it is I'm moving my generator and discriminator to GPU,
and printing out the statement GPU is available for training.
Later, are also move any inputs are models and loss function C to GPU as well.
Then moving on to defining our last functions.
I know that I'll have to utilize a real and fake loss to check whether
the discriminator outputs are close to the ground truth real labels or fake labels.
I'll be using binary cross entropy with logits loss.
Just like last time, this combines
a sigmoid activation function and a binary cross entropy loss in one function.
So, here I'm defining a real loss and fake loss function,
and these are pretty much exactly the same as before.
Here for the real loss function,
am comparing the output of my discriminator to some ground truth labels that I defined.
These are either going to be ones or smooth real labels 0.9.
There's an extra couple of lines here to account for training on GPU.
If we are training on GPU,
will actually want to move these labels to GPU.
They have the same behavior for our fake loss function.
Comparing the output of the discriminator to labels that are set equal to zero,
and am using BCE with logit loss to compare these two things,
and then moving our labels to GPU if it's available.
So, these two functions will return
a different types of discriminator losses that we want.
The next step is defining two Adam optimizers.
One for the discriminator and one for the generator since they trained separately.
I'll leave this as a task for you to complete.
DC GANs can be quite sensitive to training hyperparameters.
I suggest that you read the original paper to see
what parameters they used for creating Adam optimizers.
Put a link to that paper here.
After you complete this task,
you can proceed with training via
a very similar training loop to what you've seen before.
Our training loop will alternate between training the discriminator and generator.
You can see that this trains are not training images for some number of epochs.
Then for each batch of real training images,
we train the discriminator than the generator.
You'll notice that I'm moving are real images to GPU if available,
but otherwise this code looks pretty much the same.
The discriminator will alternate between training on
real images and fake images that were generated by our generator.
Here you'll notice that I'm actually not using labels smoothing
because I found this to work a little better without smoothing actually.
So, as we train the discriminator,
it wants to classify real images as real with are
real loss and fake images as fake with a fake loss,
but I'm adding these losses up and performing backpropagation and optimization.
Then when I train the generator,
I'm training on fake images with flipped labels.
So, I'm creating a leaner vector z of some back size and z- size,
and then I'm moving that to GPU
and passing that to my generator to create some fake images,
and here I'm looking at the output of the discriminator and
seeing if it's classifying these fake images as real.
So, I have my discriminator loss and my opposing generator loss here.
At the end, I have some last tracking and sample generation code as before.
I should note that I should put the generator into evaluation mode for creating samples,
which I may have forgotten to do before,
but I'll always update the in-classroom code and GitHub repository with any small fixes.
So, the code you work with is up-to-date and correct.
Now, evaluation mode is really only important if you have batch norm or drop out layers,
which are designed to have different behavior during training and testing.
For example, dropout should not turn off
any nodes when a model is being tested or evaluated.
In batch norm we use the population statistics
rather than the batch statistics as it does during training.
So, I thought this was important to note.
After I generate some samples I put our generator back to training mode.
Okay. So, try completing the optimizers above,
and training your model for at least ten epics.
Next I'll show you how my model trained over some number of epics,
and I'll show you what the samples look like after training.